# GXG -- a single GXG tripeptide molecule

## Requirements

Make sure PSFGEN_BASEDIR resolves to the root directory of your local copy of this repository (mine is ${HOME}/research/psfgen).  It is also assumed below that CHARMRUN resolves to your local charmrun executable and NAMD2 resolves to your local namd2 executable.  For me, these are ${HOME}/namd/NAMD_2.12_Source/Linux-x86_64-g++/charmrun and ${HOME}/namd/NAMD_2.12_Source/Linux-x86_64-g++/namd2.

## A single solvated GXG tripeptide in water

Execute do_gxg.sh a clean directory:

```
$ mkdir my_gxg
$ cd _mygxg
$ $PSFGEN_BASEDIR/gxg/do_test.sh -psfgen_args -x ALA [-cneu]
```
You can replace the 'ALA' with any three-letter amino acid residue in the CHARMM topology.  If present, the `-cneu` flag results in the neutralization of the C-terminus.

The resulting solvent-free coordinates of the GXG molecule are stored in `my_gxg_q.pdb` and its topology is `my_gxg.psf`.

## GXG's in an ethanol/water cosolvent

To make a mixture of GXG's with ethanol and water, you first must make the single gxg using the method above, to have access to the `my_gxg_q.pdb`.
Then,

```
$ mkdir my_mix
$ cd my_mix
$ $PSFGEN_BASEDIR/gxg/do_mix.sh -pm #(0.2) -we #(0.55) -L #(50.0) -gxg_psf <name>(my_gxg.psf) -gxg_pdb <name>(my_gxg_q.pdb) -eoh_pdb <name>(my_eoh_q.pdb) -fp <first-patch>(GLYP) -lp <last-patch>(CTER) -seed #(RANDOM)
```

arg | meaning | default
`-pm` | peptide molarity | 0.1
`-we` | EtOH wt fraction in peptide-free cosolvent | 0.55
`-L`  | box length, angstroms | 50
`-gxg_sf` | name of PSF file corresponding to single GXG | `my_gxg.psf`
`-gxg_pdb` | name of PDB file containing single GXG | `my_gxg_q.pdb`
`-eoh_pdb` | name of PDB file containing single ethanol | `my_eoh_q.pdb`
`-fp` | name for N-terminal patch | GLYP
`-lp` | name for C-terminal patch | CTER

If the `my_gxg_q.pdb` file was created using the `-cneu` patch, you *must* include `-fp CNEU` when invoking `do_mix.sh` or you will get errors.  Since neutralized C-termini result in cationic tripeptides (when X is not charged), chloride ions are used to neutralize the system.  The `psf` file is needed to compute the molecule's charge.

The file `my_eoh_q.pdb` can be generated by executing `do_test.sh` 
from the `eoh` directory; a default `my_eoh_q.pdb` is provided in 
the `gxg` directory as well.

2019, Cameron F Abrams
